Welcome you on this lecture we're going to be discussing the different types of funds essentially there
are three major fund types.
There are ifs or exchange traded funds.
Then there are mutual funds and then there are hedge funds.
These funds vary by fees transparency regulation and more.
Let's go ahead and discuss our differences.
ETF or exchange traded funds are constituted of a basket of funds bonds commodities securities etc.
and their actual holdings and what they are made up of are completely public and transparent and individuals
can buy and trade the marketable securities just as if there were a normal security.
So you can see here that we already have a lot of transparency of what actually constitutes DTA.
And we also have a lot of what's known as liquidity meaning we can easily buy and sell these ETF typically
people invest in an ETF or more interested in having a diversified portfolio and want to keep their
investment in an ETF for a longer period of time.
So it's very common for 401 ks to happen to be put into an ETF.
One of the most common ETF is spider or Espey Y which essentially tracks the S&P 500.
Let's move on to mutual funds.
A mutual fund is an investment vehicle made up of a pool of funds collected from many investors for
the purpose of investing in securities such as stocks bonds money market instruments and similar assets
mutual funds are operated by money managers who invest the funds capital and attempt to produce capital
gains in income for the funds investors a mutual funds portfolio is structured and maintained to match
the investment objectives stated in its prospectus.
Mutual funds usually have to disclose their holdings.
Typically once a quarter although this can vary by fund hedge funds are alternative investments using
pooled funds that employ numerous different strategies to earn active return what they call alpha for
their investors.
Hedge funds may be aggressively managed or make use of derivatives and leverage in both domestic and
international markets with the goal of generating very high returns either in an absolute sense or over
a specified market benchmark such as the S&P 500.
So the main goal of a hedge fund is essentially to beat the market or beat the benchmarks.
It's important to note that hedge funds are generally only accessible to our credit investors as they
require less FCC regulations and other funds.
So typically to actually put your money in a hedge fund you have to be a person with a very large amount
of money or have very good connections the people involved in those hedge funds.
One aspect that has set the hedge fund industry apart is the fact that hedge funds face less regulation
than mutual funds and other investment vehicles like ETF.
Much of what we do in this course mimics the way a hedge fund would operate.
We're going to end up trying to do is to use Python math to attempt to beat some sort of benchmark.
Typically the S&P 500.
We also won't need to disclose our own strategies.
So let's go ahead and discuss the fee structure for these three fund types.
So what are the fees associated with each fund the type.
Well for ETF funds usually have something known as an expense ratio where you end up paying something
of between 0.01 percent and all the way to 1 percent.
Or if you end up going beyond 1 percent that's usually kind of expensive for an ETF but it does exist
and that essentially is just a percentage of what's known as a U-M are assets under management.
Then you have mutual funds and they also operate with an expense ratio.
And typically they're a little higher.
There's something like 0.5 all the way up to around 3 percent maybe even 4 percent depending on what
the mutual fund is.
And then you have hedge funds so hedge funds operate a 2 percent fund and 20 percent of profits is sometimes
known as a 2 and 20 rule.
So basically what happens is a hedge fund will end up taking as their fee 2 percent of them are assets
under management and then 20 percent of the profits.
Now this has changed recently as ETF have become more successful with the market doing very well in
the past couple of years.
So hedge funds sometimes are bring it down to maybe like 1 percent and 10 percent of profits so they
have like a one in 10 rule or maybe even go higher if they're a very successful hedge fund.
It really depends on this because there are essentially no real rules that they have to follow the classic
rule though it's called 2.20 and that's what it stands for 2 percent of the fund and 20 percent of the
profits.
Now what is the actual liquidity.
With each fund type that is how easy is it to get your money in and out.
So ETF funds you can buy and sell them just like a normal stock for mutual funds.
It's a little stricter.
Typically though you could buy and sell them at the end of each day through some sort of broker and
then the last one is hedge funds which have kind of the quote worst liquidity of them all.
So hedge funds it really depends on your particular agreement with the hedge fund hedge funds sometimes
you make an agreement with them where you can't pull out your money within the first six months or you
have a six month drawdown period.
So if you say you want to pull out your money you have to give them six months to kind of move things
around in order to get you back your money and hedge funds remember they don't even really need to disclose
what they're doing not just to the public but even to their own clients.
So certain hedge funds you give them your money and they won't even disclose to you as an investor what
they're actually doing with that money.
So that's all we really need to know about the basics of the different fund types.
Like I mentioned we're going to be pretending we're our own hedge fund where we're kind of using math
and algorithms in Python to take some sort of money just made up investor money or own money and then
play around Fit see if we can beat these benchmarks.
So up next we're going to do is we're going to discuss what actually happens when we send a buy or sell
order for the stock on the exchanges.
Thanks everyone and I'll see you at the next lecture.